# Meteor/React Example

This package contains an example app that uses Meteor and React together. It
demonstrates:

* Using the `react` package to integrate Meteor and React
* Fetching data from reactive Meteor data sources using the `ReactMeteorData`
  mixin and the `getMeteorData()` method
* Routing using `ReactRouter`
* A basic UI using `Twitter Bootstrap` and `ReactBootstrap`
* Login, change password, enrollment emails and user management using the Meteor
  accounts system
* ES6 syntax using the `Babel` transpiler (`.es6.js` files) and ReactJS'
  transpiler (`.jsx` files)
* Tests using `Velocity`.
* Typed collections / validation using `aldeed:collection2`.
* Client- and server-side dependencies loaded from NPM and served with
  `browserify`.
* JSHint configuration to allow editors like Sublime Text or Atom to warn
  about potential problems early

The app is very simple: it shows a ticking clock and allows the user to record
a timestamp with a name. Most of the sample app-specific logic can be found
in `client/components/timestamps.jsx` and `lib/models.es6.js`, with references
from `client/components/app.jsx`, `client/components/navigation.jsx`,
`client/js/routing.jsx` and `client/css/example.css`.

The various files have comments explaining their purpose and logic. At a high
level:

* `client/` contains various React UI components and other client-side-only
  code. Most of these are relatively re-usable, for example the login,
  change password, enrollment and user management components.
* `server/` contains server-only functionality such as application
  initialisation and methods.
* `lib/` contains shared code such as model/collection definitions and
  publications.
* `tests/` contains Velocity tests using the Jasmine test syntax. The tests
  there are examples generated by Velocity and pretty frivolous. The test
  runner can be found in the top right hand corner of the running app.

# Approach to dependencies and modularisation

Meteor does not (yet!) have a good approach to modularising applications. In
short, all of the JavaScript code intended for the client is loaded into the
browser as `<script />` tags, and so it is easy to end up with load-order
problems. Meteor does have a packaging system that supports dependency
management and imports, but it is quite ideosyncratic and requires that
any library found on e.g. NPMJS is wrapped into a Meteor package.

In this example, we have taken the following approach:

* We have created a "private" package called `packages/app-deps` (using
 `meteor create --package`).
* In the `package.js` file, we declare dependencies on published NPM modules
  using the standard Meteor API for this. When the package is built, this will
  cause Meteor to download the relevant modules.
* We use the `cosmos:browserify` package to run `Browserify` when the package is
  built to create a bundle that can be sent to the client. In the file
  `client.browserify.js` (plus some relevant options in
  `client.browserify.options.json`), we `require` the relevant modules and
  put them into a global object called `Dependencies`. This is then exposed
  to the client-side Meteor app via some configuration in `package.js`. We do
  something similar for server-side dependencies in `server.js` in the package.

This gives us a way to access NPM-published dependencies via the `Dependencies`
object.

The next problem is how to share components across files and keep file lenghts
manageable, without too great a dependency on the load order of scripts.

To address this, we export specific variables under a limited number of global
"namespace" objects. We define these in `lib/_namespaces.es6.js`. By living in
`lib/` and having an early-sort name, we know it will load "early" and so its
objects should be defined in any other file where we use it:

    /* global Collections: true, Components: true, Utils: true */
    Collections = {};
    Components = {};
    Utils = {};

We then use these to export objects. For example, in
`client/components/loading.jsx`:

    /* jshint esnext:true */
    /* global Meteor, Dependencies, Components, React */
    "use strict";
    var { _, ReactBootstrap } = Dependencies;
    var { Modal, ProgressBar } = ReactBootstrap;

    var Loading = React.createClass({
        displayName: 'Loading',

        render: function() {
            return (
                <div className="please-wait modal-open">
                    <Modal
                        title='Please wait...'
                        backdrop={false}
                        animation={false}
                        closeButton={false}
                        onRequestHide={() => {}}>
                        <div className='modal-body'>
                            <ProgressBar active now={100} />
                        </div>
                    </Modal>
                </div>
            );
        }

    });

    _.extend(Components, { Loading });

We use `_.extend()` from lodash/underscore to expose the `Loading` component
as `Components.Loading`. Any other variables will not be referenceable in other
files.

At the top of the block, we import objects from the global `Dependencies`
object, here using fancy ES6 "destructuring" syntax. We also use ES6 syntax
in the `_.extend()` call.

In other components, we can do e.g.:

    var Timestamps = React.createClass({
        displayName: 'Timestamps',
        mixins: [ReactMeteorData],

        getMeteorData: function() {
            var user = Meteor.user();
            var subscriptionHandle = Meteor.subscribe("timestamps");

            return {
                loading: !subscriptionHandle.ready(),
                timestamps: Collections.Timestamps.find().fetch(),
                canWrite: user? Roles.userIsInRole(user, ['write', 'admin']) : false,
            };
        },

        render: function() {
            var { Loading } = Components;

            if(this.data.loading) {
                return <Loading />;
            }

            return (
                // ...
            );
        }
    });

Note that here we import `Loading` from `Components` inside the `render()`
function rather than globally. That is because whilst we can be pretty sure
all of the namespaces and the `Dependencies` object are loaded "early", we
don't want to rely on the load order of the scripts that add objects to
`Components` and so we don't want to use it on load.

It is likely that in a future release of Meteor, there will be an easier way
to do this, presumably using ES6 module syntax.
